hi everyone this is ivan from web wash
and in this video we'll look at two
modules that can help you test
responsive themes directly within Drupal
and we'll also look at a few generic
ways of testing responsive websites as
always this video is brought to you by
web Bosch if you want to learn more
about Drupal head over to where Bosch
dotnet where you can find in-depth
tutorials articles and videos about
Drupal or if you like follow us on
twitter at a web or net whenever you're
developing a responsive theme in drupal
or on any website the simplest way of
testing the responsiveness of the theme
is to resize the browser you narrow the
browser window yep looks good and you
keep on developing there are tools and
methods out there that makes testing
easier the first two that we will look
into our group or modules the mobile
adaptive test and the adaptive layout
tester module the mobile adaptive test
module is simple to setup just enable
assign the right permission and you're
good to go once the module is enabled
you'll be greeted by this red mobile
button when you click on the button the
current page is simply displayed as an
iframe within the outline of a mobile
you can also change the orientation from
landscape to portrait and if you select
Android you can choose a bunch of
resolutions the iframe can also be
displayed as a tablet or a laptop then
that's it the next module I want to show
you is the adaptive layout tester model
this module is similar to the previous
one we just looked at just enable the
module and click on this white icon you
can choose different widths by clicking
on these buttons or add a custom width
by adding a value to the text field one
important note this module only works in
Chrome the next two testing tools
our actual websites the first one is
response inator calm it's a simple
website just add the URL to the site you
want to test into the text field and
click on go response inator then
displays the site in a bunch of
different iframe sizes which are framed
as phones and tablets another website
that offers similar functionality is
responsive dot is just add the URL to
the site you want to test into the text
field and click on go
then choose the device you want to test
as by clicking on these buttons simple
next the Chrome browser ships with a
settings option that allows you to
override the screen resolution for a
specific tab it will make sense once I
show you open up Chrome and go to the
developer tools click on the cogwheel
in the bottom right and click on
overrides check the device metrics
checkbox and add a width and height to
the screen resolution section now the
view of the web page has changed to the
width and height specified if you close
the developer tools the screen size
resets the web developer extension for
Firefox comes with an option where you
can view the current page in a bunch of
mobile and tablet layouts just install
the extension from the Firefox add-on
site and click on resize and view
responsive layouts from this page you
can see the different sizes and devices
the final tool I want to show you is the
iOS simulator that ships with Xcode on
OS 10 this is only available for people
who develop on a Mac and use OS 10 just
go to the Mac App Store and download
Xcode or you can download it from
Apple's developer site it's free but the
file size is about 1.6 gig once you have
downloaded and in
Xcode go to the Xcode preferences and
downloads select a witch simulator you
want to download and that's it to run
the simulator open Xcode and go to the
open developer tool and click on iOS
simulator open the Safari app and test
the way
you can also switch between iPhone iPad
retina and non retina from within the
Safari browser you can access your local
host sites and sites that are already on
the internet without any extra
configuration well that's it for this
video head over to the video description
to find links to all the tools mentioned
if you have any questions please leave a
comment and thanks for watching